## VA VISTA Data Rights Policy

* [Data Rights](https://github.com/vistadataproject/documents/blob/master/Submissions/src/VistAMetadata-2015-12-09-PWS.md#data-rights)
* [Policy](https://github.com/vistadataproject/documents/blob/master/Submissions/src/VistAMetadata-2015-12-09-PWS.pdf)

### PWS Language for Federal Source Code Policy Compliance

### 1 Data Rights

#### 1.1 Data Rights: 
The Government retains full and unlimited rights to all artifacts (code, documents, materials) produced under this contract.  All artifacts are the property of the Government with all rights and privileges of ownership/copyright belonging exclusively to the Government including—but not limited to—sharing and using the code with other Federal agencies and/or the public.

**1.1.1.1 Artifact Repository: To facilitate the management, reporting, collaboration, and continuity of access of all government artifacts and deliverables produced under this contract as a single logical unit, all artifacts and deliverables shall be developed, version-controlled, stored, and delivered on an industry-standard public-facing Github repository or,  if the project is deemed to be of a sensitive nature, a non-public GitHub Enterprise repository (“Project Repository”) with clearly designated and appropriate licenses.**  Upon commencement of the contract period, the Government will provide the contractor with the Project Repository.  This will be the sole location for constant/continuous development throughout the life of the project.  

The Project Repository shall contain the one and only authoritative version of all artifacts produced under this contract. The government, all necessary stakeholders, and, at the Government's discretion, the public, shall have full read and download access of all artifacts on the Project Repository at all times throughout the lifecycle of the contract to support real-time collaborative development, testing, project management, progress reporting, and oversight of all authoritative artifacts in one location. At the termination of the contract the government shall retain ownership of the Project Repository and all contents.  The artifacts in the Project Repository shall have the following properties and data rights:

**1.1.1.2 All data and metadata produced under this contract must be provided in nonproprietary industry-standard machine-processable, structured form on the Project Repository and carry a Creative Commons CC0 license.** All data must include its corresponding, complete, correct, current operational metadata (schemes, data dictionaries) in machine-processable form, such that fully automated machine interpretation, extraction, translation, loading, and migration of all data to any future data storage system may be accomplished by a third party using industry-standard tools without any loss of information content or context.  If the data is tabular, CSV is required; for all other data structures JSON-LD is required. For metadata JSON-LD is required.

**1.1.1.3 All code (software) produced under this contract shall be developed, version-controlled, and delivered in source code form with associated documentation in the Project Repository, such that real-time, contemporaneous third-party review and validation of all code in progress is possible.**  The contractor shall clearly identify all source code as either original or derivative. All code that constitutes original works shall carry an Apache 2.0 license.  All code that constitutes derivative works must carry an [OSI-approved](https://opensource.org/licenses) free and open source license. 

All source code, dependent code, libraries, or third-party code shall be in portable, industry-standard languages. If the source code requires compiling or assembling, these shall be either industry-standard open-source compilers or assemblers, or shall be provided with the software under a free and open source license that has been approved by the [Open Source Initiative](https://opensource.org/licenses) (OSI). 

All code must have corresponding documentation, version-controlled in markdown in the same repository as the source code, and contain at minimum an Installation Guide and a User Guide for the final delivered source code such that a third party may download, install and make full functional use of the delivered code as specified and intended.  The Installation Guide must list all required third-party code, libraries or other dependencies. 

**1.1.1.4  All documentation and reports produced under this contract must be provided as machine-processable industry-standard markdown in version-controlled text files on the Project Repository and carry a Creative Commons CCO license.**  From the most recent version of the markdown source, contractor shall use a documentation generator to produce all documentation in required formats. At minimum contractor shall auto-generate HTML, Word, and PDF versions of all documentation from the markdown source.  All edits, updates, and amendments to any documentation must be through changing the markdown source (not by editing the generated files), and then the documentation shall be regenerated in all required formats. All generated documentation shall reflect the most recent version of the markdown source.  Approved markdown formats include Github Markdown and Docbook. 
